GITHUB

OPTION 1: 
EXISTING REPO ON GITHUB

CLONE REPOSITORY
- create repo on github
- git clone url
Note: Will add remote by itself

…or create a new repository on the command line
echo "# github-practice" >> README.md
git init
git add README.md
git commit -m "first commit"
git branch -M main
git remote add origin https://github.com/ChaudharyRanuj/github-practice.git
git remote add origin https://github.com/ChaudharyRanuj/phpcms.git
git push -u origin main


OPTION 2:
EXSTING REPO ON LOCAL MACHINE

if you already have repo on local machine 
create a new repo on Github
Connect your local repo (add a remote)
Push up your changes to Github

How do I disassociate a git repo from the origin from which it was cloned?
- git branch -a


GIT PUSH

- git push -u origin main
if we use as upstream to push in branch than a connection is build in local and repo branch. After than u can push directly by git push only.

IF YOU ARE PUSHING FROM BRANCH
- git push -u origin branchName or git push --set-upstream origin class-based-react
if we use as upstream to push in branch than a connection is build in local and repo branch. After than u can push directly by git push only.
Note: whenever push branch first time 

- git push origin master 
will create new master branch on gitHub as no branch with this name
Note: if we want to match the master branch with


 git branch -M main
(change the name of exsiting branch to main)

- git push origin main
- after changing the name of master branch push to the main branch

- git push origin cats:master 
- push cats branch to master branch

- git push origin pancake:cake
- push the changes to pancake branch and change the name to cake

GIT TRACK FETCH AND PULL
1st
GIT FETCH
git fetch 

2nd
Tracking Remote Branches
git branch -r

3rd
git pull

4TH 
Resolve Merge Conflicts

5th 
Push all the details to Remote Branch

FETCHING & PULLING

- git checkout origin/main
(go back to origin/main) or checking out remote tracking

Working with Remote Branches

- git clone url
clone the branch to local folder

- git branch -r
- check remote branch

- git switch puppies 
                   or
 - git checkout --track origin/puppies (old command)
- connect the remote branch automatically by switching
 to the remote branch.

- git fetch
- take changes from remote repo but not integrated in our working files.

- git fetch origin

- git fetch remote branchName 
Ex: for fetching only branchChanges

- git checkout origin/master
after fetching the changes origin/master get ahead of main branch.
After that we can checkout to see the origin/master. 

GITHUB PUBLIC AND PRIVATE REPO VISIBILTY

PUBLIC REPO
anyone on internet can see this repository.
 You choose who can commit.
This repository is accessible, discoverable, clonable anyone on internet or search in GITHUB.
But need accessibility for pushing and pulling request to do that they will need collaberating preveliges by the owner.

PRIVATE REPO
Owner and Collabrorator is give access too.
For private projects or for organisation and enterprise projects.

Adding the Collaborators

In Manage Access we can add collborator with account on GITHUB. 
Invition is send after invite.

Collaborators Access Previliges
In hands of owner how mush previliges to give

Collaborator Limitations
not have access to settings

REAMEs FILE

README.md 
md is markdown files , ending with the .md extension. Markdown tool is used
for text-to-HTML converstion for web writers.
This is the file where you can write a long description of your project.
Note: 1) if you put a README in the root of your project, Github will recogonize
it and automatically display it on the repo's home page.
 
A readme file is used to communicate important information about a repository
including-
- What the project does.
- How to run the project
-  Why it's notworthy
- Who maintains the project

GITHUB GISTS
Github Gists are a simple way to share code snippets and useful fragments with others. Gists are much easier to create, but offer far fewer features than a typical Github respository.

GITHUB PAGES

Github pages are public webpages that are hosted and published via Gihub. They allow you to create and published via Github.
Note: only static webpages

User site 
username.github.io
for porfolio website


Project Sites
username.github.io/repo-name

ForDeployed version of project.

How to host page on Github?








